= simple-banner-for-irb
== Description

It is a script that displays the banner like the under. 
It made it for the banner when irb was started. (Execution with the unit is also possible.)

下のようなバナーを表示するスクリプトです。
irb の起動時のバナー用に作りました。(単体での実行も可能です)


     ######  #     # ######  #     #
     #     # #     # #     #  #   #
     #     # #     # #     #   # #
     ######  #     # ######     #
     #   #   #     # #     #    #
     #    #  #     # #     #    #
     #     #  #####  ######     #


  ruby 1.9.2p0 (2010-08-18 revision 29036) [x86_64-linux]
  ruby - Copyright (C) 1993-2010 Yukihiro Matsumoto

"RUBY" greatly displayed and the ruby version are displayed by coloring. 
- ruby1.9 "Red"
- ruby1.8 "Green"

大きく表示された "RUBY" と ruby バージョンは色付きで表示されます。
- ruby1.9 では「赤」
- ruby1.8 では「緑」

Moreover, the part of "RUBY" is displayed while scrolling. 

また、"RUBY" の部分はスクロールしながら表示されます。


== System Requirement

It operates on TTY that supports the escape sequence. 

エスケープシーケンスをサポートした TTY 上で動作します。

The platform used to develop is Ubuntu Linux 11.04.
The value of environment variable TERM is 'xterm'. 

開発に使用したプラットフォームは Ubuntu Linux 11.04 です。
環境変数 TERM の値は 'xterm' です。

  $ echo $TERM
  xterm


== Quick Start

To display the banner when irb is started, as follows is done. 

+ 'banner.rb' is put on either of directory of $RUBYLIB. 
+ The following lines are added to the ~/.irbrc

irb の起動時にバナーを表示させるには以下のようにします。

+ 'banner.rb' を $RUBYLIB のいずれかのディレクトリに置く。
+ ~/.irbrc に以下の行を追加する。

  require 'banner'

Please refer to the manual etc. of irb for details of .irbrc. 

.irbrc についての詳細は irb のマニュアル等を参照してください。


== LICENSE

This software is distributed by the same license as head of the house Ruby.
(Please refer to the following linked Websites for details.)

このソフトウェアは、本家 Ruby と同じライセンスで配布します。
(詳しくは以下のリンク先を参照してください)

- http://www.ruby-lang.org/ja/LICENSE.txt

